# chad-santalo-regions
This repository contains the Java program for the project "On the Santaló Regions of Centrally Symmetric Convex Bodies" by Yanir Rubinstein and Chad Yu.

The program can display the Santaló Region of an inputted 2-dimensional convex body, created by Chad Yu of Montgomery Blair High School. The Santaló Regions, a notion of convex geometry first introduced by Elisabeth Werner and Mathieu Meyer, are defined to be the points "x" on the interior of a convex body such that the product of the volume of the body and the volume of the polar of the body translated by "x" are less than a certain value. The scalar that affects this certain value is called the distortion parameter. 

This has direct implications in convex geometry, as it serves as a visualization of two dimensional Santaló Regions for future researchers. At glance, the definition for the Santaló seems relatively abstract, and this helps to develop more intuition on the topic by providing a visual representation of these bodies. In general, the study of Santaló Regions could be further be useful in convex geometry, as it could possibly serve as a unique characterization of a given convex body. Furthermore, certain bounds could be placed on the distortion parameter for the Santaló Region of a body to determine how it relates to the lower bound of Mahler's Conjecture, an unsolved problem for almost a century. 

For our project, my program helped to demonstrate certain properties of the Santaló Regions and indicate possibilities at the relation of the Santaló Regions to ellipses. Specifically, our two main iterative procedures show a convergence of a sequence of Santaló Regions to an ellipse through a "smoothing" of the Santaló Regions through the iterations. This further hints at a connection between the Santaló Regions and Mahler's Conjecture, as the ellipsoid is the unique maximizer of the Mahler Volume (product of volume of a body and volume of its polar) in all dimensions. 
